>> Scott Moss: So now we're gonna talk
about Node.js and how it works with APIs.
So basically, Node.js is built for
high concurrent APIs that
are not CPU intensive.
So what exactly does that mean?
Well one, Node.js is JavaScript, so
it's async and it's event driven.
That allows it to take on a lot
of high concurrent requests.
Because it is a bit driven
when requests do come in,
they get sent off to the bit loop
to be handled asynchronously,
so that way you can register more
requests so it is very high concurrent.
But because it is single threaded,
It's not gonna be great for
CPU intensive things.
So you're not gonna be doing
things like machine learning and
that type of stuff, you could and
you can optimize like I put here,
you can definitely optimize it for
it not be single threaded.
But, you're probably better off
using something like Python or
something like that to do some
big CPU intensive operations.
When you do keep,
like I said when you keep node async, it
can handle a lot of concurrent requests.
And the key here is that
you do keep it async.
You could block node.
For instance if you put a while
loop that takes forever to execute,
nobody's gonna be able to register
anymore requests on your api.
Because you're still in a while
loop on request number one.
And you have like 100 requests
per second coming in.
They're not gonna be registered
because you're blocking
JavaScript with this while loop,
cuz it's a single thread.
So you gotta be careful of how you
actually, or what you actually do in node,
and try to keep everything asynchronous.
And like I said, it's not great for CPU
intensive work, so although yes, there's
tensored flow.js and all this stuff in
JavaScript, you can totally do it in node.
And because it's getting better and
better, and spitting up a new CPU at a new
machine in a cloud is like basically
free now, you can totally do it.
But it is definitely not designed for
that.
And there might be better tools.
Really depends on what you want to do.
I mean, nowadays you can do
machine learning in a browser.
I think they have TensorFlow
in a browser now, so.
Who am I to say you can't do it,
but I'm just letting you
know what it was built for.
What it's intended for.
Yeah, and there's just a lot of
open source stuff out there.
Literally, there is so
many open source tools for APIs and
node, it's kinda ridiculous.
We're just gonna be talking about one,
Express.
But there's so many of them.
Most of them are actually based off
Express, but there is a lot of them,
and that's just true.
With anything in node,
there's just a lot of packages and
a lot of libraries, but when it comes
to APIs, there is this overflow amount.